.. post:: 2016-02-03
   :tags: maths
   :category:
   :title: Non-constant curvature log-likelihoods

Non-constant curvature log-likelihoods
======================================


I have been trying to think if I can come up with a likelihood with non-constant log-curvature, but which still produces integrable posteriors (i.e. the evidence can be calculated) when used with normal entropic priors.

Sadly, I don't think I can.

I had hoped that $\frac{1}{x^2 + 1}$ might be useful, as it has reasonably non trivial gradients. 

.. math::

    L = -\log\left(\frac{1}{x^2 + 1} \right) 
    
    \frac{\partial L}{\partial x} = \frac{2x}{x^2 + 1}  
    
    \frac{\partial^2 L}{\partial x^2} = 2\frac{1-x^2}{\left(x^2 + 1\right)^2}  
    
    
but, the posterior form (for quadratic entropy) is not integrable

.. math::

    E \propto \int \frac{\exp\left( -\frac{1}{2}\left(\frac{x-\mu}{\sigma}\right)^2\right)}{x^2 + 1} \textrm{d}x

Then it occurred to me that I don't need a properly integrable function. I'm trying to work this out to validate an inference system. This system only returns Gaussian approximations to the evidence, so I can validate it by comparing the real Gaussian approximation with what it has calculated. I only need to make sure that I can work out the curvature of the log-posterior at its peak. 

Also the form of the prior used is actually slightly different, it is centered at zero. Also, to make things interesting, I'm going to make $x$ the residual between some data and some linear model fit

.. math::

    x_i = \frac{d_i - \sum_j R_{ij} h_j}{\sigma}

    E \propto \int \frac{\exp\left( -\frac{1}{2}\sum_j \frac{h^2_j}{m_i}\right)}{\prod_i x_i^2 + 1} \textrm{d}x

Considering the (unnormalised) log-posterior,

.. math::

    Q = -\frac{1}{2}\sum_j \frac{h^2_j}{m_i} - \sum_i \log\left( \left(\frac{d_i - \sum_j R_{ij} h_j}{\sigma}\right)^2 + 1 \right)

and its gradient

.. math::
    
    \frac { \partial Q}{\partial h_k} = - \frac{h_k}{m_i} - \sum_i \left( \left(\frac{d_i - \sum_j R_{ij} h_j}{\sigma}\right)^2 + 1 \right)^{-1} 
    2 \left(\frac{d_i - \sum_j R_{ij} h_j}{\sigma}\right) \frac{-R_{ik}}{\sigma}


shows that finding the peak is going to be hard.


